Cuz I just pushed the changes to the code
that I was working on up to GitHub, but
I'll read it out here.
It's just my GitHub,
which is Hendricks sir,
which is Hendricks with
the ER/intro-njs-app.
And then I'll just keep pushing my code
up to that main branch there as we
move along.
I kinda talked about it before,
which was like server components
versus server side render.
Let's do like a little deeper dive on
like, server components themselves.
So server components is basically
if I have a link here for the RFC,
which RFC stands for Request for Comments,
they have like a whole video on it and
stuff but the actual RFC is like here,
which I highly recommend,
really because it's It's really good.
Like if you just go through and
scroll through here,
what the React team is talking about, for
server components, it's quite amazing.
I've learned a lot, just from going
through there, and experimenting, and
seeing what people are talking about.
So check that out.
But basically server components are
components that never leave the server.
They just don't.
So that means there is no JavaScript
that gets shipped to the client.
This also means I talked about server
components not be able to use things like
browser API's, but that also means
they can't use anything what state so
hooks like use state and
effects can't use them.
The server component just won't work
because I don't know if anyone has
experienced with a What's a synonymous
architecture I think Phoenix live view
does something like this that's
such a nice framework but
they do something like this where they
stream stuff from the server to the front
end To like not having to have so
much JavaScript.
But what they do is they actually
keep all the state on the server.
So they have like the ability to
do like checking and state and
stuff on the server and
they send it over through a web socket.
It's kinda like that here, except for
they don't keep state on the server.
So there is no hooks,
there is no ability to do a use effect
because those components are re-rendering.
All right, if you think about how
a hook works, a hook is kind of,
it's exactly what it sounds like.
It's a hook into the lifecycle
of a React component.
But our server React component
doesn't have a lifecycle.
It just renders the data and
sends the HTML back to streaming.
So it doesn't really have an ability
to like, this data changed.
I need to refresh myself or re-render.
There is no re-rendering on the server.
That's a client side Approach for react
on the server it just happens once and
then based on your caching and
your revalidating and
the segments that you go to
it might happen again but
it's definitely not keeping track of
state and things like that because.
Yeah, that's just not what it does.
So you can't use hooks and
things like that.
So you basically have to kinda just think
about those components a little different.
But they do bring benefits,
as you'll see in a minute.
Some benefits are really cool.
They make the component stuff just so
much easy to think about,
in my opinion cuz it's explicit.
But yeah, server components
versus server side rendering,
I talked about a little bit, but
Traditional server side rendering is when
a component is rendered on the server,
and the HTML is basically serial like.
So you get the HTML that's
rendered from the component.
And then all the data that's associated
with that component is serialized
basically, it's turned into JSON,
it's sent along with the components And
then it's hydrated on the front end.
You might have heard that before.
These components need to be hydrated.
That just means the HTML got put on the
screen, and here's all the data for it.
So take this data, feed it to the
client-side versions of those components
so it can be rehydrated back
with all that serialized data.
So if you've ever tried to send
something that's not sterilizable,
like a date object or a function,
you can't serialize a function,
you can't serialize a date object.
You might get an error in next.js.
If you ever tried to pass back a date
function inside of a get static props or
a get server site props and next.js v12,
you would've got an error Because
to cross the network threshold,
the barrier, it has to be serialized,
and date objects can't be serialized.
So that's how server side rendering works
is we're gonna render this thing on
the server.
We're gonna get back some HTML.
The whole request has to finish.
Once we're done with all that,
we're gonna send it back.
And then the frontend is gonna just
take over and rerender itself, and
now we're in client mode.
Okay, server components is not that.
Server components is We're
going to go to the server.
We're going to fetch any data
that this component needs,
whether it's in parallel,
whether it's one after each other.
And then as the results start to come in,
we're going to stream it to the client,
that way, the client isn't waiting for
the result of this request to come back.
So therefore the client can proceed
to do whatever it wants to do,
show other components that have already
popped in in different parts like that.
So you're gonna start seeing more
apps Have this effect where you
can think of a dashboard that's
got panels and stuff everywhere.
Some panels still loading in,
others are already here, right?
Each individual thing has
its own loading animation,
its own error state that's
completely isolated from
the rest of that page because they're
server components and they're individual.
So I think you're gonna start
seeing stuff like that, and
that's the difference between A server
component and server side rendering.
So when do you use server components?
You should just always use them until
you need to do some client side stuff.
So if you're like making an interactive
chart using D three, server component or
client component?
Probably client component because there's
no interactions on the server that Allow
you to manipulate the Dom.
So you still have to use that a form
where you have to submit things.
Probably a client component because you
have to respond to a submit event on
a form and do something.
A navigation bar probably
a server component.
It's just a read only navigation
bar with links on it.
Why do you need to render
that on the client?
That should just load in immediately and
everything else should fall in place
I think that's why next.js was just like,
let's just make everything server
appointed by default,
to force you to think about it.
Like basically, what I found out is I
really liked this as a forcing function
because you will write the code
as a server component.
And then maybe you're not thinking about
or maybe you don't know how it works, or
maybe you just don't care.
You'll try to do something like a hook or
something and you're like it broke and
because it broke you can't move on so
then that forces you to make it a client
component but only that thing right and
then you go to the next component and
then that's a server component and
you just repeat the cycle so you're
only forced to fix the thing that broke.
Because it needed to be a client component
only put use client on the things that you
need to do, and
everything else is a server component.
So I kinda like it as a forcing function
because it kinda teaches you eventually
you'll build this list of like if
it's got this, if it's got this,
if it's got this This but use client and
then that would be your thing but
by default it's always a server
component any questions on that yes
>> it's kind of like what
you're mentioning one
thing I was I noticed was.
Yet when we first were using
the link component itself,
we didn't have the use client.
>> Right.
>> So there's a link component then that's
a client component that has that like the
use client, presumably at the top of that.
>> Yes, exactly.
And
that brings me to another point that
I think I haven't heard somewhere.
I have here.
Yeah, so like, using third party
libraries, like a lot of every third party
library ever and
react does not adopt this strategy yet.
So unless they just made it in the last,
I don't know.
These are just very
proactive mo maintainers and
they're looking at all the React RFCs.
They probably haven't added used client
to the top of their, component lip.
Like for instance, one component lip
that I love to use is chaker ui, right?
I love this one and I was gonna use it for
one of the courses.
Then I went on here and I was like,
I want to use this for next year.
Yes.
And it immediately says, you can't,
you can't use it for next year I start
saying unless you put us client because it
doesn't work outside of the client.
So you're gonna see a lot of this,
you're gonna see a lot of lives and
libraries not working out of the box
because they haven't gone in and
made them Work for React 18 and beyond,
so you have to wrap them in your own
useClientComponent first as a proxy so you
can import them in your server components.
Yeah.
I'm trying to formulate this question,
right?
Like, having been through the various
state management stages of React,
from props drilling to Redux,
to Redux with hooks, to abusing context,
Still using use context and
on, like anecdotally.
How many of you seen, I guess first
kind of islands architecture that
they're discussing as implemented in Next?
And then maybe they use client directed,
how have you seen those changing?
Kind of the unidirectional tree model
Ways of hosting and sharing state.
>> Yeah, I think that's still
gonna remain but only for
the client side land I think they've
zoomed out a little more and I, And
they were before we even get there,
we need to figure out so there's the React
team, the next JS team and the the Google
Chrome team are working very closely
together to figure out how to create
an optimum framework for the browser.
>> And I think they've landed
on the fact that, like,
how do we send less JavaScript
to the browser, right?
And I think React's like, well,
we'll make it a framework-level support.
Next.js is like,
we'll make it easier for people to do.
And Chrome's like, we'll probably
make it easier for them to debug or
something, right?
So, I think them zooming out is like,
okay, on the client level,
we still have this whole state thing and
figuring out when state changes and
how to keep track of that state.
But now it's more of on a network layer,
a data layer.
It's like, well, how do we even know what
components to even send to the browser in
the first place?
And that comes down to.
Keep in track of the things that you're
trying to get whether it's from an APR,
whether it's from a database,
whether it's from a file system.
And what is your intention on that data?
Should it be re validated,
should it be dynamic?
Always and never cashed,
what is the cashing strategy and
I think that's gonna determine,
>> How things get rendered.
They're basically making it a data first
rendering approach before it even gets to
the client.
And then when it gets to the client,
you're back to wherever you were before.
So I think that's just them
zooming out on that layer.
How things get rendered.
They're basically making it a data first
rendering approach before it even gets to
the client.
And then when it gets to the client,
you're back to wherever you were before.
So I think that's just them
zooming out on that layer.
So This is their approach, so yeah.
It's just a refocus, I think,
on the data in the network and not so
much on the state itself.